Allen’s Street. The name had been unfamiliar to him until recently, but not to Captain Merrick, who seemed to know the city as well as he did the dirigible. He had come by the name in the same manner in which he’d discovered Lord Connor’s letters. He’d been rifling through his father’s office. Sorting through a pile of advertisements that were to be posted in the Classified section, he’d found one that struck him as unusual.
Unusual, yes, but that was true of many ads. As for this one, he hadn’t even set it aside. It was not until he stumbled across the second of Lord Connor’s letters - the one that was signed pseudonymously, and which adhered to the Society’s manifesto - that he marked the advertisement as significant. He had to dig through the pile again to find it.
“I am aiming to form a Vigilance Committee. Much like the now-famous Vigilance Committee formed by George Lusk, ours will be dedicated to tracking down and capturing one of society’s most notorious of criminals, who roams these streets even now. It is not Jack The Ripper I wish to apprehend, however, but of an even deadlier fiend, and a cleverer one. Dr. Allen. Given the dubious legality of the unsanctioned formation of this committee of vigilantes, I have elected neither to share my name, nor the name of the meeting place. Instead, I put it to those sufficiently dedicated to find me at the Tea House on the street with no name. This Saturday, midnight.”
Jonathan fished his watch out of his pocket and found, to his profound relief, that he would still be able to arrive punctually.
According to Captain Merrick, Allen’s Street was the local name for the small side-street off of Fleet, which had no official name or signage. It was Allen’s Street by reputation alone, as that was where the alleged murderer had lived. The Captain, unlike Jonathan who would not ordinarily have been caught dead in the district, had been born and raised in Whitechapel, and so, knew its streets and its secrets intimately.
Jonathan, conversely, knew very little about Dr. Allen at all. He knew that the man was associated with the Resurrectionists, and he knew that the man was wanted for murder. The rest of what he knew or thought he knew about the doctor was based on conjecture, urban legends, penny dreadfuls, and colourfully embellished journalism. His plan, therefore, was to gather information. Anything that might help him catch his father’s killer and clear his name in Connor’s death. Connor had been his best lead. Now that he was dead, Dr. Allen was his only lead.
The letters themselves wouldn’t be enough to prove that Connor had been a Resurrectionist. Jonathan’s doubts had been swiftly washed away by the plague doctors showing up at Connor’s masquerade. According to the penny dreadfuls, the plague doctors masks were trademarks of the Resurrectionists - but he needed more than that.
It was safe to assume that Connor’s death had something to do with his connection to that secret society, even if Monday really had only been sent there to rob him. Jonathan drained his glass and stifled a cough.
“Arriving at our destination, sir,” came Captain Merrick’s voice, thin and distorted from the metal pipes through which it was conveyed. “Please prepare to disembark.”[ Mr. O is friends with Roderick Steen, who he knows works with the police. He decides to pay Roderick a visit and tells him about Lord Connor’s death. Roderick, who has worked on the Dr. Allen case, lets Mr. O know about the Vigilance Committee meeting, which Roderick had planned to attend himself (due to his interest in solving the Dr. Allen case), and suggests he attend. He warns Mr. O that the Resurrectionists will be looking for him now. The only way to ensure his safety is to help catch Dr. Allen and the Resurrectionists.]